Hybrid deployment in Tyk Cloud (#2397)
TykTechnologies/tyk-docs: tyk-docs/content/tyk-cloud/environments-deployments/hybrid-gateways.md

```json
{
  "storage": {
        "type": "redis",
        "host": "tyk-redis",
        "port": 6379,
        "username": "",
        "password": "",
        "database": 0,
        "optimisation_max_idle": 2000,
        "optimisation_max_active": 4000
    }
}
```

### 4. Update docker compose file

Edit the <docker-compose.yml> file to to use the [tyk.hybrid.conf](https://github.com/TykTechnologies/tyk-gateway-docker#hybrid) that you have just configured.

From:

```yml
- ./tyk.standalone.conf:/opt/tyk-gateway/tyk.conf
```
To:

```yml
- ./tyk.hybrid.conf:/opt/tyk-gateway/tyk.conf
```

### 5. Run docker compose

Run the followng:

```bash
docker compose up -d
```

You should now have two running containers, a Gateway and a Redis.

### 6. Check that the gateway is up and running

Call the /hello endpoint using curl from your terminal (or any other HTTP client):

```console
curl http://localhost:8080/hello -i
````

Expected result:

```
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/json
Date: Fri, 17 Mar 2023 12:41:11 GMT
Content-Length: 59

{"status":"pass","version":"4.3.3","description":"Tyk GW"}
```

## Deploy in Kubernetes with Helm

> ### 1. Add the Tyk official Helm repo `tyk-helm` to your local Helm registry

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 1. Add the Tyk official Helm repo `tyk-helm` to your local Helm repository
```

```bash
helm repo add tyk-helm https://helm.tyk.io/public/helm/charts/
helm repo update
```

The helm charts are also available on [ArtifactHub](https://artifacthub.io/packages/helm/tyk-helm/tyk-hybrid).

### 2. Then create a new namespace that will be hosting the Tyk Gateways

```bash
kubectl create namespace tyk
```

> ### 3. Get the template yaml for configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 3. Get the default values.yaml for configuration
```

Before proceeding with installation of the chart we need to set some custom values. First save the full original values.yaml to a local copy:

```bash
helm show values tyk-helm/tyk-hybrid > values.yaml
```

### 4. Configure Tyk Gateway and its connection to Tyk Cloud

You need to modify the following values in your custom `values.yaml` file: 

* `gateway.rpc.apiKey`: Tyk Dashboard API Access Credentials of the user created ealier
* `gateway.rpc.rpcKey`: Organisation ID 
* `gateway.rpc.connString`: MDCB connection string

> * *(optional)* `group_id`: if you have multiple data plane (e.g. in different regions), specify the data plane group (string) to which the gateway you are deploying belong. The data planes in the same group share one redis instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* *(optional)* `gateway.rpc.group_id`: if you have multiple data plane (e.g. in different regions), specify the data plane group (string) to which the gateway you are deploying belong. The data planes in the same group share one redis instance.
```

> * *(optional)* `gateway.sharding.enabled` and `gateway.sharding.tags`: you can enable sharding to selectively load APIs to specific gateways, using tags

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* *(optional)* `gateway.sharding.enabled` and `gateway.sharding.tags`: you can enable sharding to selectively load APIs to specific gateways, using tags. By default, sharing is disabled and gateway will load all APIs.
```

### 5. Configure the connection to redis

You can connect the gateway to any Redis instance already deployed (as DBaaS or hosted in your private infrastructure). 

In case you don't have a Redis instance yet, here's how to deploy Redis in Kubernetes using Bitnami Helm charts.

```bash
helm install tyk-redis bitnami/redis -n tyk
```

Follow the notes from the installation output to get connection details and password.

```console
  Redis(TM) can be accessed on the following DNS names from within your cluster:

    tyk-redis-master.tyk.svc.cluster.local for read/write operations (port 6379)
    tyk-redis-replicas.tyk.svc.cluster.local for read-only operations (port 6379)

  export REDIS_PASSWORD=$(kubectl get secret --namespace tyk tyk-redis -o jsonpath="{.data.redis-password}" | base64 --decode)
```

You need to modify the following values in your custom `values.yaml` file: 

* `redis.addrs`: the name of the redis instance including the port as set by Bitnami `tyk-redis-master.tyk.svc.cluster.local:6379` 

> * `redis.pass`: password set in redis (`$REDIS_PASSWORD`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `redis.pass`: password set in redis (`$REDIS_PASSWORD`). Alternatively, you can use --set flag to set it during helm installation. For example --set redis.pass=$REDIS_PASSWORD.
```

> ### 6. Install the helm chart

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 6. Install Hybrid data plane
```

tyk-redis-master-0                    1/1     Running   0          47m
tyk-redis-replicas-0                  1/1     Running   0          47m
tyk-redis-replicas-1                  1/1     Running   0          46m
tyk-redis-replicas-2                  1/1     Running   0          46m
```

Note: if you are using a redis instance hosted somewhere else, then no redis pods will appear here. 

Run this command in your terminal to check that the services were correctly created:

```console
kubectl get service -n tyk
````

**Expected result:**

```console
NAME                     TYPE        CLUSTER-IP       EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)         AGE
gateway-svc-tyk-hybrid   NodePort    10.96.232.123    <none>        443:32668/TCP   44m
tyk-redis-headless       ClusterIP   None             <none>        6379/TCP        47m
tyk-redis-master         ClusterIP   10.109.203.244   <none>        6379/TCP        47m
tyk-redis-replicas       ClusterIP   10.98.206.202    <none>        6379/TCP        47m
```

Note: IP adresses might differ on your system. 

Finally, from your console, send a HTTP call to the /hello endpoint of the gateway `gateway-svc-tyk-hybrid`:

> ```console
> curl http://hostname:32668/hello -i
> ````

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note: you may need to port forward if you're testing on local machine, e.g. `kubectl port-forward service/gateway-svc-tyk-hybrid -n tyk 8080:443`

```console
curl http://hostname:8080/hello -i
````
```

**Expected result:**

```console
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/json
Date: Fri, 17 Mar 2023 10:35:35 GMT
Content-Length: 234

{
  "status":"pass",
  "version":"4.3.3",
  "description":"Tyk GW",
  "details":{
    "redis": {"status":"pass","componentType":"datastore","time":"2023-03-15T11:39:10Z"},
    "rpc": {"status":"pass","componentType":"system","time":"2023-03-15T11:39:10Z"}}
}
```

## Next steps

> Now it is time to publish a new API [Task 5 - Deploy your Edge Gateway and add your first API]({{< ref "/content/tyk-cloud/getting-started-tyk-cloud/first-api.md" >}})

Reviewer: is this link correct?

Author: yes, it goes to the page: https://tyk.io/docs/tyk-cloud/getting-started-tyk-cloud/first-api/ 
The page needs also to be improved in the future (e.g. removing "edge gateway" and making it more about configuring APIs in Tyk Cloud using Tyk Dashboard).

NAME                                  READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
gateway-tyk-hybrid-54b6c498f6-2xjvx   1/1     Running   0          4m27s
tyk-redis-master-0                    1/1     Running   0          47m
tyk-redis-replicas-0                  1/1     Running   0          47m
tyk-redis-replicas-1                  1/1     Running   0          46m
tyk-redis-replicas-2                  1/1     Running   0          46m
```

Note: if you are using a redis instance hosted somewhere else, then no redis pods will appear here. 

Run this command in your terminal to check that the services were correctly created:

```console
kubectl get service -n tyk
````

**Expected result:**

```console
NAME                     TYPE        CLUSTER-IP       EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)         AGE
gateway-svc-tyk-hybrid   NodePort    10.96.232.123    <none>        443:32668/TCP   44m
tyk-redis-headless       ClusterIP   None             <none>        6379/TCP        47m
tyk-redis-master         ClusterIP   10.109.203.244   <none>        6379/TCP        47m
tyk-redis-replicas       ClusterIP   10.98.206.202    <none>        6379/TCP        47m
```

Note: IP adresses might differ on your system. 

> Finally, from your console, send a HTTP call to the /hello endpoint of the gateway `gateway-svc-tyk-hybrid`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Finally, from your terminal, send an HTTP call to the /hello endpoint of the gateway `gateway-svc-tyk-hybrid`:
```

helm repo update
```

The helm charts are also available on [ArtifactHub](https://artifacthub.io/packages/helm/tyk-helm/tyk-pro).

**2. Then create a new namespace that will be hosting the Tyk Gateways**

```bash
kubectl create namespace tyk
```

**3. Get the template yaml for configuration**

Before proceeding with installation of the chart we need to set some custom values. First save the full original values.yaml to a local copy:

```bash
helm show values tyk-helm/tyk-hybrid > values.yaml
```

**4. Configure Tyk Gateway and its connection to Tyk Cloud**

You need to modify the following values in your custom `values.yaml` file: 

* `gateway.rpc.apiKey`: Tyk Dashboard API Access Credentials of the user created ealier
* `gateway.rpc.rpcKey`: Organisation ID 
* `gateway.rpc.connString`: MDCB connection string
* *(optional)* `gateway.rpc.groupId`: if you have multiple data plane (e.g. in different regions), specify the data plane group (string) to which the gateway you are deploying belong
* *(optional)* `gateway.sharding.enabled` and `gateway.sharding.tags`: you can enable sharding to selectively load APIs to specific gateways, using tags

> * `image.tag`: `v4.3` (or any other version available in [dockerhub](https://hub.docker.com/r/tykio/tyk-gateway/tags))

Reviewer: I think the page https://hub.docker.com/r/tykio/tyk-gateway/tags is a bit hard to follow. The tags are not ordered/filtered and there's no release information. Shall we consider adding image tag information to https://tyk.io/docs/release-notes/version-4.3/ @letzya ?

Got a look at https://hub.docker.com/_/kong and it looks more friendly. There's a list of currently supported image tags on Overview page. We can list or LTS and latest version there. I'll raise a separate suggestion to DevOps team :)
